.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2006 by Pawe³ Wilk <siefca@gnu.org>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License"; if it's not, contact Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA to obtain one.
.\"
.TH home_etc_reset "3" "PLD Linux/GNU" "December 2003" "HOME-ETC"
.SH NAME
home_etc_reset \- reset HOME-ETC internal cache buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <home_etc.h>
.sp
.BI "void home_etc_reset();"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function \fBhome_etc_reset(3)\fP is used to reset internal buffer,
which normaly keeps the HOME_ETC directory name string. It is recommended
to use this function, when you want to force the library to obtain \fBHOME_ETC\fP
directory once again, while successive invoking \fBhome_etc_path(3)\fP. Note,
that \fBhome_etc_path(3)\fP function uses \fBget_home_etc_static(3)\fP to obtain
the directory, and the \fBget_home_etc_static(3)\fP stores the result into the cache.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns no value.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR home_etc(3)
.BR home_etc_path(3),
.BR get_home_etc(3),
.BR get_home_etc_static(3)
    
.SH LICENSE
The HOME-ETC library is distributed under the terms of GNU LGPL.
This documentation is distributed under the terms of GNU FDL.
       
.SH AUTHOR
Pawel Wilk <siefca@gnu.org>
There was also a lot of other people, who have contributed to this code
and/or helped with patching applications. See the AUTHORS and the CONTRIBUTORS files.

