.\" Copyright (c) 2003 by Pawe³ Wilk <siefca@gnu.org>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License"; if it's not, contact Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA to obtain one.
.\"
.TH home_etc "3" "PLD Linux/GNU" "December 2003" "HOME-ETC"
.SH NAME
libhome_etc \- allow user to keep its configuration files in a non-standard location
.SH DESCRIPTION
HOME-ETC is an idea to keep configuration files in a subdirectory
specified by user, instead of its home directory. The reason was I don't
like a rash, and my home directory has started looking like that.

The idea has arised on the occasion of developing
PLD Linux/GNU distribution, where it is developed till now. Many
applications need to be patched, and the \fBHOME-ETC\fP library
is a helper to not write the same thing more than once.

\fBHOME_ETC\fP is a pathname container. It may be obtained in two ways:
using the environment variable of the same name, or using a file inside
user's home directory. The filename is \fI.home_etc\fP. The second method
must be provided because of applications, which cannot touch user's environment
(MTAs, identd, and other daemons). However, in PLD we're setting things up
by invoking \fI/etc/profile.d/home-etc.?sh\fP scripts, which are setting the correct
environment variable according to information found in the file.

You can find more detailed description in the related manual pages.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR home_etc_path(3),
.BR home_etc_path_static(3),
.BR get_home_etc(3),
.BR home_etc_reset(3)
    
.SH LICENSE
The HOME-ETC library is distributed under the terms of GNU LGPL.
This documentation is distributed under the terms of GNU FDL.
       
.SH AUTHOR
Pawel Wilk <siefca@gnu.org>
There was also a lot of other people, who have contributed to this code
and/or helped with patching applications. See the AUTHORS and the CONTRIBUTORS files.

