.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2006 by Pawe³ Wilk <siefca@gnu.org>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License"; if it's not, contact Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA to obtain one.
.\"
.TH home_etc_reset "3" "PLD Linux/GNU" "May 2006" "HOME-ETC"
.SH NAME
home_etc_expand_tilde \- toggle tilde-slash pair parsing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <home_etc.h>
.sp
.BI "void home_etc_expand_tilde(const char);"
.sp
.BI _HE_LIKE_TILDE;
.BI _HE_UNLIKE_TILDE;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function \fBhome_etc_expand_tilde(3)\fP is used to set leading
tilde & slash parsing, while processing pathnames by \fBhome_etc_path(3)\fP.
It takes one argument, which should be set to 0 to disable and to non-zero to
enable parsing of a leading \fI~/\fP string found in path. When parsing
is enabled, the path is expanded by replacing \fI~/\fP by user's home directory
pathname while invoking internal routines. Additionally, the \fI~\fP character
is also translated into user's home directory name, but only if the whole parsed
path contains only that one character.

The way to obtain user's home directory depends on method choosen while
invoking \fBhome_etc_path(3)\fP (see \fIuse_env\fP description in the
manual).

Once invoked this function keeps last setting memorized. The parsing
by default is in state DISABLED.

\fB_HE_LIKE_TILDE\fP and \fB_HE_UNLIKE_TILDE\fP are macros for this function.
Usage is self-explanatory (but don't forget to add trailing semicolon in case of
use, e.g. _HE_LIKE_TILDE; to keep the syntax ok).

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
This function returns no value.

.SH EXAMPLES
for HOME=\fI/home/users/siefca\fP
and HOME_ETC=\fI/usr/siefca-configs\fP
.sp    
the function:
.sp
.BI "home_etc_expand_tilde(" 1 );
.BI "home_etc_path("""~/.muttrc """, " 1 );
.sp    

will return
.I /usr/siefca-configs/.muttrc

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR home_etc(3)
.BR home_etc_path(3),
.BR get_home_etc(3),
.BR get_home_etc_static(3)
    
.SH LICENSE
The HOME-ETC library is distributed under the terms of GNU LGPL.
This documentation is distributed under the terms of GNU FDL.
       
.SH AUTHOR
Pawel Wilk <siefca@gnu.org>
There was also a lot of other people, who have contributed to this code
and/or helped with patching applications. See the AUTHORS and the CONTRIBUTORS files.

